# Node and NPM

Basics of NODE and NPM. 

Node is a javascript runtime engine that allows to use javascript programs outside of web browser. NPM is a node package manager that allows to easily install node packages i.e. javascript tools and programs.

### package.json

> What is
- configuration file for a node project
- allows to specify package versions : `semantic versioning rules`
- makes a node project reproducible - shareable
- allows to include scripts in a project

> Initializing package.json
- type into the cli:
	```sh
	npm init
	```

### Installing/uninstalling packages

> local packages

- npm install [arg] package_name
- npm uninstall [arg] package_name

By default npm saves a package as a local project dependancy.

> arguments

- --save
	- save as project dependancy
- --save-dev
	- save as development dependancy (package not required in production build)
- g
	- save package globally in the local OS

> listing the global packages

```sh
npm list -g --depth=0
```

### Setting up a node package `lite-server`

`lite-server` is package that allows to see the realtime changes to web development files. It serves a contents of a project in a localhost environment.

Set it up by installing it in cli:

```sh
npm install lite-server --save-dev
```

- `--save-dev` property is used for a package that is needed for development purposes
- `--save` property is used for a package that directly depends on a project

> node_modules
- a folder that contains all the node packages for particular project
- this is a folder that is put into a `.gitignore` and not stored in online repositories

### Node API

NODE API consists of all the tools necessary to work with NODE environment.

For more info visit node docs.

https://nodejs.org/api/
https://docs.npmjs.com/