### Introduction to REACT

## Overview of libraries and frameworks

> Why JS libraries/frameworks?

Sooner or later when project grows you'll find yourself in a position when DOM manipulation and data update handling runs out of hands.

- complexity of managing DOM manipulations rises
- well defined application architectures through 
software development paradigmas:
	- MVC (model view controller)
	- MVVM (model view view model)
	- MVW (model view whatever)
	- binding of model and view: controllers, view models
	- Flux arhitecture / Redux

> Software Library

- collection of implementations of behavior with a well defined interface
- reuse of behavior
- modularity

> Software framework

Framework is an abstraction where software provides generic functionality that can be selectively changed by additional user-written code.

- it has a universal, reusable environment that provides particular functionality as part of a larger software platform
- examples are angular.js, backbone, ember etc.
- frameworks are usually opinionated, that is you are more restricted to use it in a way it's meant to be used

> Library vs Framework

From AngularJS doumentation:

- `a library` is a collection of functions which are useful when writing web apps. Your code is in charge and it calls into the library when it sees fit, e.g. jQuery
- `framework` is a paticular implementation of a web application where your code fills in the details. The framework is in charge and it calls into your code when it needs something app specific, e.g. Angular, Ember etc.

> Framework

- Hollywood Principle
	- Don't call us, we'll call you!
- Inversion of Control
- Imperative vs Declarative Programming

`Imperative approach` is where app designer clearly specifies how the work needs to be accomplished or how the application needs to be executed. Step by step how it needs to be accomplished.

`Declarative approach` is where app designer simply specifies what needs to be accomplished and leaves it up to the framework to decide how the work is going to be accomplished.

> Javascript frameworks

- single page applications
	- rich internet applications
- MVC etc principles
	- data binding routing
- scalable, reusable, maintainable js code
- test driven development

Some of the js frameworks:

- Angular
- Ember
- React
- Vue
- ..


## React world

> What is React and is it a library of framework?

In their own site: a javascript library for building user interfaces. Also React is mentioned to be declarative, which actually means it has an approach for being a framework.

- component based
- declarative
- library for buildinpmng user interfaces
- technology stack agnostick (works side by side with any tech stack)

> React history

- first deployed in FB newsfeed 2011
- open-sourced 2013
- designed for speed, simplicity and scalability

> React vocabulary

- one-way data flow (flux architecture)
- JSX
- Components
- State
- Props
- Virtual DOM
- Element (React element)
- Flux / Redux

## Building a React app

> React element

- smallest building block of React app
	- ```jsx
		const element = <h1 className='app-title'>Welcome to React</h1>
		```
- plain js objects that are
	- 'cheap' to create

> React component

- Components are made of react elements
	- 	Class based component (has a default state)
		```jsx
		class App extends Component {
			render() {
				return ()
			}
		}
		```
	- functional component (stateless, single purpose component)
		```jsx
		function App() {
			return ()
		}
		```
> Rendering to the DOM

- Rendered using ReactDOM (js external object class)
	- ```jsx
		ReactDOM.render(<App />, document.getElementById('root'))
		```
- Where is it rendered?
	- i.e. inside index.html
	- ```html
		<div id="root"></div>
		```

> JSX

- ```jsx
	<h1>Hello, world</h1>
	```
- syntactic extension to javascript
- shorthand notation to represent javascript function calls that evaluate to javascript objects
- avoids artificial separation of rendering logic from other UI logic
- in Angular the UI logic is separated from rendering logic as an example

The following jsx:

```jsx
	const element = (
		<h1 className="title">
			Hello Africa
		</h1>
	)
```

is mapped to a React.createElement fn which itself:

```js
	const element = React.createElement(
		'h1',
		{className: 'title'},
		'Hello Africa'
	)
```

is mapped to a javascript object:

```js
	const element = {
		type: 'h1',
		props: {
			className: 'title',
			children: 'Hello Africa'
		}
	}
```

> Embedding Expressions in JSX

The fact that UI logic is mixed with rendering logic means
that it's easy to embed JS expressions into JSX code.
I.e. it's easy to get values and other data from custom js objects and include it within React UI code.

```jsx
	const users = {id: as234, name: 'Foxy', ..}

	..

	return (
		<div key={user.id} className='col-12'>
			<span className='username'>{user.name}..
		
		..
	)
```

